#  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk::chooseColor - pops up a dialog box for the user to select a color.

=for category Popups and Dialogs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<    >I<$color> = I<$widget>-E<gt>B<chooseColor>?(I<-option>=E<gt>I<value>, ...)?;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The method B<chooseColor> is implemented as a perl wrapper
on the core tk "command" B<tk_chooseColor>, and I<$widget>
is passed as the argument to the hidden B<-parent> option.
The implementation of internal B<tk_chooseColor> is platform
specific, on Win32 it is a native dialog, and on UNIX/X11 it is implemented
in terms of L<Tk::ColorEditor|Tk::ColorEditor>.

The B<chooseColor> method pops up a dialog box for the
user to select a color. The following I<option-value> pairs are
possible as command line arguments:

=over 4

=item B<-initialcolor>=E<gt>I<color>

Specifies the color to display in the color dialog when it pops
up. I<color> must be in a form acceptable to the B<Tk_GetColor>
function.

=item B<-parent>=E<gt>$widget

Makes $widget the logical parent of the color dialog. The color
dialog is displayed on top of its parent window.

=item B<-title>=E<gt>I<titleString>

Specifies a string to display as the title of the dialog box. If this
option is not specified, then a default title will be displayed.

=back

If the user selects a color, B<tk_chooseColor> will return the
name of the color in a form acceptable to B<Tk_GetColor>.  If the
user cancels the operation, the command will return B<undef>.

=head1 EXAMPLE

 $widget->configure(-fg => $parent->chooseColor(-initialcolor => 'gray',
                                                -title => "Choose color"));

=head1 KEYWORDS

color selection dialog

=cut

