
=head1 NAME

Tk::Table - Scrollable 2 dimensional table of Tk widgets

=for pm Tk/Table.pm

=for category Tk Geometry Management

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Tk::Table;

  $table = $parent->Table(-rows => number,
                          -columns => number,
                          -scrollbars => anchor,
                          -fixedrows => number,
                          -fixedcolumns => number,
                          -takefocus => boolean);

  $widget = $table->Button(...);

  $old = $table->put($row,$col,$widget);
  $old = $table->put($row,$col,"Text");  # simple Label
  $widget = $table->get($row,$col);

  $cols = $table->totalColumns;
  $rows = $table->totalRows;

  $table->see($widget);
  $table->see($row,$col);

  ($row,$col) = $table->Posn($widget);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Tk::Table is an all-perl widget/geometry manager which allows a two dimensional
table of arbitary perl/Tk widgets to be displayed.

Entries in the Table are simply ordinary perl/Tk widgets. They should
be created with the Table as their parent. Widgets are positioned in the
table using:

 $table->put($row,$col,$widget)

If I<$widget> is not a reference it is treated as a string, and
a Lable widget is created with the string as its text.

All the widgets in each column are set to the same width - the requested
width of the widest widget in the column.
Likewise, all the widgets in each row are set to the same height - the requested
height of the tallest widget in the column.

A number of rows and/or columns can be marked as 'fixed' - and so can serve
as 'headings' for the remainder the rows which are scrollable.

The requested size of the table as a whole is such that the number of rows
specified by -rows (default 10), and number of columns specified by -columns
(default 10) can be displayed.

If the Table is told it can take the keyboard focus then cursor and scroll
keys scroll the displayed widgets.

The Table will create and manage its own scrollbars if requested via
-scrollbars.

The table can be emptied using

 $table->clear

the widgets which were in the table are destroyed.


The Tk::Table widget is derived from a Tk::Frame, so inherits all its
configure options.

The default focus traversal is giving the focus only to the table
widget as a whole. To enable focus traversal into table cells (e.g. if
there are embedded entry widgets), then the option C<-takefocus> has
to be set to C<0>.

=head1 BUGS / Snags / Possible enhancements

=over 4

=item *

Very large Tables consume a lot of X windows.

=item *

No equivalent of pack's -anchor/-pad etc. options

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Tk::grid>, L<Tk::HList>, L<Tk::TableMatrix>, L<Tk::MListbox>,
L<Tk::Columns>

=cut

