#  Copyright (c) 1992 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk_SetWindowVisual - change visual characteristics of window

=for category C Programming

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>tk.hE<gt>>

int
B<Tk_SetWindowVisual>(I<tkwin, visual, depth, colormap>)

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item Tk_Window tkwin (in)

Token for window.

=item Visual *visual (in)

New visual type to use for I<tkwin>.

=item "int" depth (in)

Number of bits per pixel desired for I<tkwin>.

=item Colormap colormap (in)

New colormap for I<tkwin>, which must be compatible with
I<visual> and I<depth>.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When Tk creates a new window it assigns it the default visual
characteristics (visual, depth, and colormap) for its screen.
B<Tk_SetWindowVisual> may be called to change them.
B<Tk_SetWindowVisual> must be called before the window has
actually been created in X (e.g. before B<Tk_MapWindow> or
B<Tk_MakeWindowExist> has been invoked for the window).
The safest thing is to call B<Tk_SetWindowVisual> immediately
after calling B<Tk_CreateWindow>.
If I<tkwin> has already been created before B<Tk_SetWindowVisual>
is called then it returns 0 and doesn't make any changes;  otherwise
it returns 1 to signify that the operation
completed successfully.

Note:  B<Tk_SetWindowVisual> should not be called if you just want
to change a window's colormap without changing its visual or depth;
call B<Tk_SetWindowColormap> instead.

=head1 KEYWORDS

colormap, depth, visual
