#  Copyright (c) 1990-1992 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk_HandleEvent - invoke event handlers for window system events

=for category C Programming

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>tk.hE<gt>>

B<Tk_HandleEvent>(I<eventPtr>)

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item XEvent *eventPtr (in)

Pointer to X event to dispatch to relevant handler(s).

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Tk_HandleEvent> is a lower-level procedure that deals with window
events.  It is called by B<Tk_ServiceEvent> (and indirectly by
B<Tk_DoOneEvent>), and in a few other cases within Tk.
It makes callbacks to any window event
handlers (created by calls to B<Tk_CreateEventHandler>)
that match I<eventPtr> and then returns.  In some cases
it may be useful for an application to bypass the Tk event
queue and call B<Tk_HandleEvent> directly instead of
calling B<Tk_QueueEvent> followed by
B<Tk_ServiceEvent>.

This procedure may be invoked recursively.  For example,
it is possible to invoke B<Tk_HandleEvent> recursively
from a handler called by B<Tk_HandleEvent>.  This sort
of operation is useful in some modal situations, such
as when a
notifier has been popped up and an application wishes to
wait for the user to click a button in the notifier before
doing anything else.

=head1 KEYWORDS

callback, event, handler, window
