McStas uses autoconf to detect the system configuration and create the
proper Makefiles needed for compilation. On Unix-like systems, you
should be able to compile and install McStas using the following steps:

1. Unpack the sources to somewhere convenient and change to the source
   directory:

  gunzip -c mcstas.tar.gz | tar xf -
  cd mcstas/

2. Configure and compile McStas:

  ./configure
  make

3. Install McStas:

  make install

You should now be able to use McStas. For some examples to try, see the
examples/ directory.

The installation of McStas in step 3 by default installs in the
/usr/local/ directory, which on most systems requires superuser (root)
privileges. To install in another directory, use the --prefix= option to
configure in step 2. For example,

  ./configure --prefix=/home/joe

will install the McStas programs in /home/joe/bin/ and the library files
needed by McStas in /home/joe/lib/mcstas/.

McStas has not been tested on Windows at this time. We have tried to
make the McStas code as portable as possible, so it should compile
without too much trouble under Windows. If there is a request for it, we
will make Windows binaries of McStas available.

If you experience any problems, or have some questions or ideas
concerning McStas, please contact kristian.nielsen@risoe.dk.


Troubleshooting
===============

You should try to make sure that the directory containing the McStas
binaries (mcstas, gscan, and mcdisplay) is contained in the PATH
environment variable. The default directory is /usr/local/bin, which is
usually, but not always, included in PATH. Alternatively, you can
reference the McStas programs using the full path name, ie.

  /usr/local/bin/mcstas my.instr
  perl /usr/local/bin/gscan 10 1e5 mysim output ARG=42
  perl /usr/local/bin/mcdisplay --multi mysim ARG=42

This may also be necessary for the front-end programs if the install
procedure could not determine the location of the perl interpreter on
your system.

If McStas is installed properly, it should be able to find the files it
needs automatically. If not, you should set the MCSTAS environment
variable to the directory containing the runtime files "mcstas-r.c" and
"mcstas-r.h" and the standard components (*.comp). Use one of

  MCSTAS=/usr/local/lib/mcstas; export MCSTAS     # sh, bash
  setenv MCSTAS /usr/local/lib/mcstas             # csh, tcsh

The PGPLOT library, which is used by the mcdisplay frontend, needs the
PGPLOT_DIR environment variable to be set to the directory containing
PGPLOT, eg.

  PGPLOT_DIR=/usr/lib/pgplot; export PGPLOT_DIR     # sh, bash
  setenv PGPLOT_DIR /usr/lib/pgplot             # csh, tcsh

See the PGPLOT documentation for details.

