#  Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk_GetVRootGeometry - Get location and size of virtual root for window

=for category C Programming

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>tk.hE<gt>>

B<Tk_GetVRootGeometry(>I<tkwin, xPtr, yPtr, widthPtr, heightPtr>B<)>

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item Tk_Window tkwin (in)

Token for window whose virtual root is to be queried.

=item int xPtr (out)

Points to word in which to store x-offset of virtual root.

=item int yPtr (out)

Points to word in which to store y-offset of virtual root.

=item "int" widthPtr (out)

Points to word in which to store width of virtual root.

=item "int" heightPtr (out)

Points to word in which to store height of virtual root.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<TkGetVRootGeometry> returns geometry information about the virtual
root window associated with I<tkwin>.  The ``associated'' virtual
root is the one in which I<tkwin>'s nearest top-level ancestor (or
I<tkwin> itself if it is a top-level window) has
been reparented by the window manager.  This window is identified by
a B<__SWM_ROOT> or B<__WM_ROOT> property placed on the top-level
window by the window manager.
If I<tkwin> is not associated with a virtual root (e.g.
because the window manager doesn't use virtual roots) then *I<xPtr> and
*I<yPtr> will be set to 0 and *I<widthPtr> and *I<heightPtr>
will be set to the dimensions of the screen containing I<tkwin>.

=head1 KEYWORDS

geometry, height, location, virtual root, width, window manager
