#  Copyright (c) 1994 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk::clipboard - Manipulate Tk clipboard

=for category User Interaction

=head1 SYNOPSIS

I<$widget>-E<gt>B<clipboard>I<Option>?(I<args>)?

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command provides an interface to the Tk clipboard,
which stores data for later retrieval using the selection mechanism.
In order to copy data into the clipboard, B<clipboardClear> must
be called, followed by a sequence of one or more calls to
B<clipboardAppend>.  To ensure that the clipboard is updated atomically, all
appends should be completed before returning to the event loop.

The following methods are currently supported:

=over 4

=item I<$widget>-E<gt>B<clipboardClear>

Claims ownership of the clipboard on I<$widget>'s display and removes
any previous contents.   Returns an empty string.

=item I<$widget>-E<gt>B<clipboardAppend>(?B<-format>=E<gt>I<format>?,?B<-type>=E<gt>I<type>?,?B<-->?,I<data>)

Appends I<data> to the clipboard on $widget's
display in the form given by I<type> with the representation given
by I<format> and claims ownership of the clipboard on $widget's
display.

=over 4

I<Type> specifies the form in which the selection is to be returned
(the desired ``target'' for conversion, in ICCCM terminology), and
should be an atom name such as STRING or FILE_NAME; see the
Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual for complete details.
I<Type> defaults to STRING.

The I<format> argument specifies the representation that should be
used to transmit the selection to the requester (the second column of
Table 2 of the ICCCM), and defaults to STRING.  If I<format> is
STRING, the selection is transmitted as 8-bit ASCII characters.
See the L<Tk::Selection> documentation for explanation of what happens
if I<format> is not STRING.
Note that arguments passed to
B<clipboardAppend> are concatenated before conversion, so the
caller must take care to ensure appropriate spacing across string
boundaries.  All items appended to the clipboard with the same
I<type> must have the same I<format>.

A B<--> argument may be specified to mark the end of options:  the
next argument will always be used as I<data>.
This feature may be convenient if, for example, I<data> starts
with a B<->.

=back

=back

=over 4

=item I<$widget>-E<gt>B<clipboardGet>( ?-type? );

Retrieve data from the clipboard on  I<widget>'s  display.
I<-type> specifies the form in which the data is
to be returned and should be an atom  name  such  as  STRING  or
FILE_NAME.  Type defaults to STRING.  This command is equivalent 
to C<SelectionGet( -selection =E<gt> 'CLIPBOARD' )>.

=back

=head1 KEYWORDS

clear, format, clipboard, append, selection, type

=cut

