=head1 NAME

Tk::FBox - a file dialog

=for pm Tk/FBox.pm

=for category Popups and Dialogs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Tk::FBox;
    $file = $mw->FBox(...)->Show;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Tk::FBox> is the dialog implementation behind the C<getOpenFile>,
C<getSaveFile>, and C<chooseDirectory> method calls in the Unix/X11
world. As such, it supports all options for these methods and
additionally:

=over

=item -sortcmd => sub { $_[0] cmp $_[1] }

Specified a callback for changing the sorting of the icons in the
C<IconList> widget. By default, perl's C<cmp> operator will be used.

From the source code:

  # Using -sortcmd is really strange :-(
  # $top->getOpenFile(-sortcmd => sub { package Tk::FBox; uc $b cmp uc $a});
  # or, un-perlish, but useable (now activated in code):
  # $top->getOpenFile(-sortcmd => sub { uc $_[1] cmp uc $_[0]});

This is an experimental option!

=item -type => $type

Type should be "open" for choosing existing files to open (default),
"save" for choosing existing or non-existing files to save, or "dir"
for choosing directories.

=item -filter => $glob

A file glob to restrict displayed files. This is only active if no
B<-filetypes> are defined.

=item -force => $bool

If true, then there will be no dialog if a file already exists.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

The original tkfbox.tcl from Tcl/Tk is:

Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.

See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.

Translated to Perl/Tk by Slaven Rezic <srezic@cpan.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Tk::getOpenFile>, L<Tk::IconList>.
