#  Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk_GetPixmap, Tk_FreePixmap - allocate and free pixmaps

=for category C Programming

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>tk.hE<gt>>

Pixmap
B<Tk_GetPixmap(>I<display, d, width, height, depth>B<)>

B<Tk_FreePixmap(>I<display, pixmap>B<)>

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item Display *display (in)

X display for the pixmap.

=item Drawable d (in)

Pixmap or window where the new pixmap will be used for drawing.

=item "int" width (in)

Width of pixmap.

=item "int" height (in)

Height of pixmap.

=item "int" depth (in)

Number of bits per pixel in pixmap.

=item Pixmap pixmap (in)

Pixmap to destroy.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These procedures are identical to the Xlib procedures B<XCreatePixmap>
and B<XFreePixmap>, except that they have extra code to manage X
resource identifiers so that identifiers for deleted pixmaps can be
reused in the future.
It is important for Tk applications to use these procedures rather
than B<XCreatePixmap> and B<XFreePixmap>;  otherwise long-running
applications may run out of resource identifiers.

B<Tk_GetPixmap> creates a pixmap suitable for drawing in I<d>,
with dimensions given by I<width>, I<height>, and I<depth>,
and returns its identifier.
B<Tk_FreePixmap> destroys the pixmap given by I<pixmap> and makes
its resource identifier available for reuse.

=head1 KEYWORDS

pixmap, resource identifier
