#  Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk_GetCapStyle, Tk_NameOfCapStyle - translate between strings and cap styles

=for category C Programming

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>tk.hE<gt>>

int
B<Tk_GetCapStyle(>I<interp, string, capPtr>B<)>

char *
B<Tk_NameOfCapStyle(>I<cap>B<)>

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item Tcl_Interp *interp (in)

Interpreter to use for error reporting.

=item char *string (in)

String containing name of cap style: one of ```butt'', ``projecting'',
or ``round''.

=item int *capPtr (out)

Pointer to location in which to store X cap style corresponding to
I<string>.

=item int cap (in)

Cap style: one of B<CapButt>, B<CapProjecting>, or B<CapRound>.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Tk_GetCapStyle> places in I<*capPtr> the X cap style
corresponding to I<string>.
This will be one of the values
B<CapButt>, B<CapProjecting>, or B<CapRound>.
Cap styles are typically used in X graphics contexts to indicate
how the end-points of lines should be capped.
See the X documentation for information on what each style
implies.

Under normal circumstances the return value is B<TCL_OK> and
I<interp> is unused.
If I<string> doesn't contain a valid cap style
or an abbreviation of one of these names, then an error message is
stored in I<interp-E<gt>result>, B<TCL_ERROR> is returned, and
I<*capPtr> is unmodified.

B<Tk_NameOfCapStyle> is the logical inverse of B<Tk_GetCapStyle>.
Given a cap style such as B<CapButt> it returns a
statically-allocated string corresponding to I<cap>.
If I<cap> isn't a legal cap style, then
``unknown cap style'' is returned.

=head1 KEYWORDS

butt, cap style, projecting, round
