#  Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk_InternAtom, Tk_GetAtomName - manage cache of X atoms

=for category C Programming

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>tk.hE<gt>>

Atom
B<Tk_InternAtom(>I<tkwin, name>)

char *
B<Tk_GetAtomName(>I<tkwin, atom>)

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item Tk_Window tkwin (in)

Token for window.  Used to map atom or name relative to a particular display.

=item char *name (in)

String name for which atom is desired.

=item Atom atom (in)

Atom for which corresponding string name is desired.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These procedures are similar to the Xlib procedures
B<XInternAtom> and B<XGetAtomName>.  B<Tk_InternAtom>
returns the atom identifier associated with string given by
I<name>;  the atom identifier is only valid for the display
associated with I<tkwin>.
B<Tk_GetAtomName> returns the string associated
with I<atom> on I<tkwin>'s display.  The string returned
by B<Tk_GetAtomName> is in Tk's storage:  the caller need
not free this space when finished with the string, and the caller
should not modify the contents of the returned string.
If there is no atom I<atom> on I<tkwin>'s display,
then B<Tk_GetAtomName> returns the string ``?bad atom?''.

Tk caches
the information returned by B<Tk_InternAtom> and B<Tk_GetAtomName>
so that future calls
for the same information can be serviced from the cache without
contacting the server.  Thus B<Tk_InternAtom> and B<Tk_GetAtomName>
are generally much faster than their Xlib counterparts, and they
should be used in place of the Xlib procedures.

=head1 KEYWORDS

atom, cache, display
