#  Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk_MapWindow, Tk_UnmapWindow - map or unmap a window

=for category C Programming

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>tk.hE<gt>>

Tk_Window
B<Tk_MapWindow>(I<tkwin>)

B<Tk_UnmapWindow>(I<tkwin>)

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item Tk_Window tkwin (in)

Token for window.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These procedures may be used to map and unmap windows
managed by Tk.  B<Tk_MapWindow> maps the window given
by I<tkwin>, and also creates an X window corresponding
to I<tkwin> if it doesn't already exist.  See the
B<Tk_CreateWindow> manual entry for information on
deferred window creation.
B<Tk_UnmapWindow> unmaps I<tkwin>'s window
from the screen.

If I<tkwin> is a child window (i.e. B<Tk_CreateChildWindow> was
used to create it), then event handlers interested in map and unmap events
are invoked immediately.  If I<tkwin> isn't an internal window,
then the event handlers will be invoked later, after X has seen
the request and returned an event for it.

These procedures should be used in place of the X procedures
B<XMapWindow> and B<XUnmapWindow>, since they update
Tk's local data structure for I<tkwin>.  Applications
using Tk should not invoke B<XMapWindow> and B<XUnmapWindow>
directly.

=head1 KEYWORDS

map, unmap, window
