#  Copyright (c) 1992 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk::Dialog - Create modal dialog and wait for a response.

=for pm Tk/Dialog.pm

=for category Popups and Dialogs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<    >I<$dialog> = I<$parent>-E<gt>B<Dialog>(I<-option> =E<gt> I<value>, ... );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This procedure is part of the Tk script library - its arguments
describe a dialog box.  After creating a dialog box, B<Dialog> waits
for the user to select one of the Buttons either by clicking on the
Button with the mouse or by typing return to invoke the default Button
(if any).  Then it returns the text string of the selected Button.

While waiting for the user to respond, B<Dialog> sets a local
grab.  This prevents the user from interacting with the application
in any way except to invoke the dialog box.  See the B<Show()> method.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following option/value pairs are supported:

=over 4

=item B<-title>

Text to appear in the window manager's title bar for the dialog.

=item B<-text>

Message to appear in the top portion of the Dialog.

=item B<-bitmap>

If non-empty, specifies a bitmap to display in the top portion of the
Dialog, to the left of the text.  If this is an empty string then no
bitmap is displayed in the Dialog.

=item B<-default_button>

Text label string of the Button that displays the default ring.

=item B<-buttons>

A reference to a list of Button label strings.  Each I<string>
specifies text to display in a Button, in order from left to right.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item I<$answer> = $dialog-E<gt>B<Show(>?-global?B<)>;

This method displays the Dialog, waits for the user's response, and stores
the text string of the selected Button in I<$answer>.  If I<-global> is
specified a global (rather than local) grab is performed.

The actual Dialog is shown using the B<Popup> method. Any other
options supplied to B<Show> are passed to B<Popup>, and can be used to
position the Dialog on the screen. Please read Tk::Popup for details.

=back

=head1 ADVERTISED WIDGETS

Because Tk::Dialog is a subclass of Tk::DialogBox it inherits all the
advertised subwidgets of its superclass: e.g. "B_button-text", where
'button-text' is a Button's -text value. Additionally, Tk::Dialog
advertises:

=over 4

=item B<message>

The dialog's Label widget containing the message text.

=item B<bitmap>

The dialog's Label widget containing the bitmap image.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

I<$dialog> = I<$mw>-E<gt>B<Dialog>(-text =E<gt> 'Save File?', -bitmap =E<gt> 'question', -title =E<gt> 'Save File Dialog', -default_button =E<gt> 'Yes', -buttons =E<gt> [qw/Yes No Cancel/);

=head1 KEYWORDS

bitmap, dialog, modal, messageBox

=cut

