=head1 NAME

Tk::804delta - what is new for perl/Tk 804

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between the Tk800 series and the
Tk804 series.

=head1 Incompatible Changes

In Tk804.028, there are some additional incompatible changes:

Return values of some B<Tk::Wm> methods (e.g. B<aspect>, B<wmGrid>,
B<iconposition>, B<resizable> ...) were changed from returning tclish
lists (e.g. "1 2 3 4") to perlish lists (1,2,3,4).

B<Tk::Wm::wmTracing> needs argument for setting on/off, without argument
just return the current value.

All Tk804 releases have the following incompatible changes:

Tk804 will only work with perl 5.8.0 and above. For older perl
versions look for Tk800.025.

B<curselection> of B<Tk::Listbox> now returns an array reference in
scalar context. This means you have to write

	my(@selected) = $listbox->curselection

or

	my(@selected) = @{ $listbox->curselection }

now.

The B<fontActual> method now returns the pixel value instead of the
point value for B<-size>. Pixel values are expressed as negative
numbers.

Some enhancements from the E<quot>dashE<quot> patches are lost for now
(i.e. B<-tile>, B<-troughtile> ...).

The B<-state> option is not available anymore for B<Tk::Text> tags.
Use B<-elide> instead.

=head1 Enhancements

Tk804 is Unicode-aware.

It is possible to build Tk with Xft support on X11. This is strongly
recommened if you are planning to make use of Unicode rendering
capabilities of Tk. It also gives anti-aliased fonts for regular text
(if you have TrueType or Type1 fonts and they are in your fontconfig
config file).

The new method B<chooseDirectory> is available as a standard directory
selector.

B<Tk::PNG> and B<Tk::JPEG> are bundled now with the perl/Tk
distribution, providing support for the image formats B<png> and
B<jpeg>.

Improvements to B<Tk::Listbox>: new option B<-activestyle>, new
methods B<itemconfigure> and B<itemcget>, new virtual event B<<<
<<ListboxSelect>> >>>.

More tests.

=head1 New Widgets

=over

=item Tk::Labelframe

An alternative to B<Tk::LabFrame>.

=item Tk::Panedwindow

An alternative to B<Tk::Adjuster>.

=item Tk::Spinbox

An alternative to the CPAN module B<Tk::NumEntry>.

=back

=head1 Selected Bug Fixes

=head1 Changed Internals

=head1 Platform Specific Problems

=head1 Future Directions

=head1 Reporting Bugs

If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the articles
recently posted to the comp.lang.perl.tk newsgroup.

If you believe you have an unreported bug, please send a mail to <ptk@lists.stanford.edu> and/or <nick@ing-simmons.net>.  Be sure to trim your bug down
to a tiny but sufficient test case.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Tk>, C<Changes> file in the Perl/Tk distribution.

=cut


