=head1 NAME

Tk::messageBox  -  pop up a message window and wait for user response.

=for category Popups and Dialogs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<    >I<$response> = I<$widget>-E<gt>B<messageBox>(I<-option> =E<gt> I<value>, ... );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This method uses L<Tk::Dialog|Tk::Dialog> to quickly create several
common dialog boxes. A dialog widget consists of a message, an icon
and a set of buttons (see the I<-type> option). After the message
window is popped up, B<messageBox> waits for the user to select one of
the buttons and return the button text (note that it's best to check the
returned value in a case insensitive manner). NOTE: unlike
B<Tk::Dialog> which creates its widget once and can be used many
times, the B<messageBox> window is created every time it's used.

The following option/value pairs are supported:

=over 4

=item B<-default>

The case-sensitive symbolic name of the default button
for this message window  ('Ok',  'Cancel'  and  so
on).  See  B<-type>  for a list of the symbolic names.
If the message box has  just  one  button  it  will
automatically  be  made  the  default, otherwise if
this option is not specified, there  won't  be  any
default button.

=item B<-icon>

Specifies an icon to display. On X11 any of the builtin Tk bitmaps can
specified. On Windows only B<error>, B<info>, B<question> or
B<warning> are supported.

=item B<-message>

Specifies the message to display.

=item B<-title>

Specifies  a  string to display as the title.

=item B<-type>

Specifies a predefined set of buttons to be displayed. The following
values are possible: 'AbortRetryIgnore', 'Ok', 'OkCancel',
'RetryCancel', 'YesNo' or 'YesNoCancel'.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

I<$response> = I<$mw>-E<gt>B<messageBox>(-icon =E<gt> 'question', -message =E<gt> 'Hello World!', -title =E<gt> 'My title', -type =E<gt> 'AbortRetryIgnore', -default =E<gt> 'Retry');

=head1 AUTHOR

Stephen.O.Lidie@Lehigh.EDU.  98/05/25

=cut

