
=head1 NAME

Tk::MsgBox - create and manipulate a message dialog

=for pm Tk/MsgBox.pm

=for category Popups and Dialogs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Tk::MsgBox
    ...
    $d = $top->MsgBox(-title => "Title", -type => "okcancel");
    ...
    $button = $d->Show;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<MsgBox> is a simple dialog with predefined buttons.

=head1 OPTIONS

The options recognized by B<MsgBox> are as follows:

=over 4

=item B<-icon>

Specify the icon of the MsgBox. Valid values are B<error>, B<info>,
B<question>, or B<warning>.

=item B<-type>

Specify the type of the MsgBox. Valid values are B<abortretryignore>,
B<ok>, B<okcancel>, B<retrycancel>, B<yesno>, or B<yesnocancel>. The
type determines the buttons to be shown.

=item B<-default>

Specify the default button. This must be one of B<abort>, B<retry>,
B<ignore>, B<ok>, B<cancel>, B<yes>, or B<no>, depending on the type
of the MsgBox previously specified.

=item B<-detail>

Specify text for the detail region of the MsgBox.

=item B<-message>

Specify the message text of the MsgBox.

=item B<-title>

Specify the title of the MsgBox.

=back

=head1 METHODS

B<MsgBox> supports only one method as of now:

=over 4

=item B<Show()>

Displays the MsgBox until the user invokes one of the buttons. Returns
the name of the button invoked.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Translated from Tcl/Tk by B<Slaven Rezic> srezic@cpan.org

This code is distributed under the same terms as Perl.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Tk::messageBox>, L<Tk::DialogBox>, L<Tk::Dialog>.

=cut

