#  Copyright (c) 1990-1994 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk::Label - Create and manipulate Label widgets

=for category  Tk Widget Classes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

I<$label> = I<$parent>-E<gt>B<Label>(?I<options>?);

=head1 STANDARD OPTIONS

B<-activebackground>
B<-activeforeground>
B<-anchor>
B<-background>
B<-bitmap>
B<-borderwidth>
B<-compound>
B<-cursor>
B<-disabledforeground>
B<-font>
B<-foreground>
B<-highlightbackground>
B<-highlightcolor>
B<-highlightthickness>
B<-image>
B<-justify>
B<-padx>
B<-pady>
B<-relief>
B<-takefocus>
B<-text>
B<-textvariable>
B<-underline>
B<-wraplength>

See L<Tk::options> for details of the standard options.

=head1 WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS

=over 4

=item Name:	B<height>

=item Class:	B<Height>

=item Switch:	B<-height>

Specifies a desired height for the label.
If an image or bitmap is being displayed in the label then the value is in
screen units (i.e. any of the forms acceptable to B<Tk_GetPixels>);
for text it is in lines of text.
If this option isn't specified, the label's desired height is computed
from the size of the image or bitmap or text being displayed in it.

=item Name:	B<state>

=item Class:	B<State>

=item Switch:	B<-state>

Specifies one of three states for the label: B<normal>, B<active>, or
B<disabled>. In normal state the label is displayed using the
B<foreground> and B<background> options. In active state the label is
displayed using the B<activeForeground> and B<activeBackground>
options. In the disabled state the B<disabledForeground> and
B<background> options determine how the button is displayed.

=item Name:	B<width>

=item Class:	B<Width>

=item Switch:	B<-width>

Specifies a desired width for the label.
If an image or bitmap is being displayed in the label then the value is in
screen units (i.e. any of the forms acceptable to B<Tk_GetPixels>);
for text it is in characters.
If this option isn't specified, the label's desired width is computed
from the size of the image or bitmap or text being displayed in it.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<Label> method creates a new window (given by the
$widget argument) and makes it into a label widget.
Additional
options, described above, may be specified on the command line
or in the option database
to configure aspects of the label such as its colors, font,
text, and initial relief.  The B<label> command returns its
$widget argument.  At the time this command is invoked,
there must not exist a window named $widget, but
$widget's parent must exist.

A label is a widget that displays a textual string, bitmap or image.
If text is displayed, it must all be in a single font, but it
can occupy multiple lines on the screen (if it contains newlines
or if wrapping occurs because of the B<wrapLength> option) and
one of the characters may optionally be underlined using the
B<underline> option.
The label can be manipulated in a few simple ways, such as
changing its relief or text, using the commands described below.

=head1 WIDGET METHODS

The B<Label> method creates a widget object.
This object supports the B<configure> and B<cget> methods
described in L<Tk::options> which can be used to enquire and
modify the options described above.
The widget also inherits all the methods provided by the generic
L<Tk::Widget|Tk::Widget> class.

=head1 BINDINGS

When a new label is created, it has no default event bindings:
labels are not intended to be interactive.

=head1 KEYWORDS

label, widget

=cut

