
=head1 NAME

Tk::MainWindow - Root widget of a widget tree

=for pm Tk/MainWindow.pm

=for category Creating and Configuring Widgets

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Tk;

    my $mw = MainWindow->new( ... options ... );

    my $this = $mw->ThisWidget -> pack ;
    my $that = $mw->ThatWidget;
    ...

    MainLoop;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Perl/Tk applications (which have windows associated with them) create
one or more B<MainWindow>s which act as the containers and parents
of the other widgets.

B<Tk::MainWindow> is a special kind of L<Toplevel|Tk::Toplevel> widget. It is
the root of a widget tree. Therefore C<$mw-E<gt>Parent> returns
C<undef>.

The default title of a MainWindow is the basename of the script
(actually the Class name used for options lookup, i.e. with basename
with inital caps) or 'Ptk' as the fallback value.  If more than one MainWindow is created
or several instances of the script are running at the same time the
string C<" #n"> is appended where the number C<n> is set to get
a unique value.

Unlike the standard Tcl/Tk's wish, perl/Tk allows you to create
several MainWindows.  When the I<last> B<MainWindow> is destroyed
the Tk eventloop exits (the eventloop is entered with the call of
C<MainLoop>). Various resources (bindings, fonts, images, colors) are
maintained or cached for each MainWindow, so each MainWindow consumes more
resources than a Toplevel. However multiple MainWindows can make sense when
the user can destroy them independently.

=head1 METHODS

You can apply all methods that a L<Toplevel|Tk::Toplevel> widget accepts.

The method I<$w>-E<gt>B<MainWindow> applied to any widget will return the
B<MainWindow> to which the widget belongs (the  MainWindow belongs to itself).

=head1 MISSING

Documentation is incomplete.
Here are I<some> missing items that should be explained in
more detail:

=over 4

=item *

The new mechanism for MainWindows is slightly different to
other widgets.

=item *

There no explanation about what resources are bound
to a MainWindow (e.g., ClassInit done per MainWindow)

=item *

Passing of command line options to override or augment
arguments of the C<new> method (see L<Tk::CmdLine>).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Tk::Toplevel|Tk::Toplevel>
L<Tk::CmdLine|Tk::CmdLine>

=cut

