#  Copyright (c) 1990-1994 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk_GetJustify, Tk_NameOfJustify - translate between strings and justification styles

=for category C Programming

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include E<lt>tk.hE<gt>>

Tk_Justify
B<Tk_GetJustify(>I<interp, string, justifyPtr>B<)>

char *
B<Tk_NameOfJustify(>I<justify>B<)>

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item Tcl_Interp *interp (in)

Interpreter to use for error reporting.

=item char *string (in)

String containing name of justification style (``left'', ``right'', or
``center'').

=item int *justifyPtr (out)

Pointer to location in which to store justify value corresponding to
I<string>.

=item Tk_Justify justify (in)

Justification style (one of the values listed below).

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Tk_GetJustify> places in I<*justifyPtr> the justify value
corresponding to I<string>.  This value will be one of the following:

=over 4

=item B<TK_JUSTIFY_LEFT>

Means that the text on each line should start at the left edge of
the line;  as a result, the right edges of lines may be ragged.

=item B<TK_JUSTIFY_RIGHT>

Means that the text on each line should end at the right edge of
the line;  as a result, the left edges of lines may be ragged.

=item B<TK_JUSTIFY_CENTER>

Means that the text on each line should be centered;  as a result,
both the left and right edges of lines may be ragged.

Under normal circumstances the return value is B<TCL_OK> and
I<interp> is unused.
If I<string> doesn't contain a valid justification style
or an abbreviation of one of these names, then an error message is
stored in I<interp-E<gt>result>, B<TCL_ERROR> is returned, and
I<*justifyPtr> is unmodified.

B<Tk_NameOfJustify> is the logical inverse of B<Tk_GetJustify>.
Given a justify value it returns a statically-allocated string
corresponding to I<justify>.
If I<justify> isn't a legal justify value, then
``unknown justification style'' is returned.

=back

=head1 KEYWORDS

center, fill, justification, string
